---
title: What Can Academia Learn From Software Engineering?
date: 2024-02-16
---

I have participated in a lot of research projects in fields as broad as philosophy, economics, biology, and machine learning. I think I have a pretty good track record, as some of these projects have actually succeeded. When I was an undergraduate at DePaul University studying philosophy, I participated in a grant where I was paired up with a PhD student to perform research in the field of philosophy. Under (now) Dr. Rachel Silverbloom, I studied Albert Camus' ethics across several of his works including *The Myth of Sisyphus, Nuptials at Tipasa,* and *The Rebel.* For most of the project, I do not think that Rachel appreciated my attitude towards the project, as I was an arrogant kid who thought they were hot shit because they were at college at 16 and getting research grants. I know now that I am only lukewarm shit. I bounced around research projects for the next two years in undergraduate study, went to library school, and soon found myself doing data science consulting. In one of my data science positions, I soon found that there was not a lot for me to do for clients besides hop in on research projects around ML/AI for laboratories, finance, and other engineering-focused projects. This experience, along with an MBA program that I had started, exposed me to Agile methodology of delivering software.

When I finally made my triumphant return to the academy a few months ago, I found myself in a very different environment than existed in a corporate consulting environment. Projects are now on the scale of years rather than weeks, people are doing 12 different projects at once, and each of those projects are in a different domain. This was, at the same time, both a relief and a source of stress for me. I no longer needed to get up at America o'clock in the morning to be on call with offshore teams to troubleshoot something, but this also meant that I had nothing to do at America o'clock in the morning. So I am researching. Coming from the software consulting world, I knew that Agile was a great framework for continually delivering on long-term projects that are more software-oriented, but now I am doing more humanities research. What do?

## Adapting Agile For Academia

Research is naught but one large project.
